# Week Five: Top Three

This list has been made with careful deliberation regarding possible open source projects to contribute to this semester beyond making map contributions on OpenStreetMap or other contributions on Wikipedia.

1. *UnityStation*
   I've floated the idea in some other post or such that I've written without looking too hard into it. The fact that it is written in C# presents a slight challenge but I know enough syntax adjacent languages that make me confident picking it up would be a somewhat easy task. Additionally I did have a brief stint with the Unity Engine (which the game uses), so I have some exposure to coding in C#. Why this stands out to me, at first, is that it's a project created to make an updated version of a multiplayer game I have been playing since I was about 14. One of the best multiplayer games surely, reasons why I won't delve into due to how much I can extol its virtues. Another aspect besides sentimental value is that it's a sci-fi project, which is dear to me in general. 
   
   After participating in several project evaluations, I've decided to revisit the repo in order to assess it based upon the criteria specified by the assignment. I'll be honest - compared to the projects we have reviewed in class, this one stands out significantly community-wise. Where other, big and longstanding projects had no code of conduct, this one has a well-thought-out and well written document on the matter. Where big open source projects have shaky levels of documentation, this project has significant documentation; a roadmap, project goals per topic, module, and so forth. Guides for issues, pull requests, everything. I didn't expect this to have such strong or abudnant documents but I suppose as it is a passion project for many who work on it, they'd want it to be as fleshed out and welcoming to new contributors as possible. I'd hope that I can find myself among them in the coming months, as there is still much work to do (I've played the latest build - its responsive but lacking in many areas I'd assume to have been, I'll say standardized).
   
2. *OpenStreetMap*
   Having contributions to OpenStreetMap be part of our course has been an exciting point for me. I love maps, real and fictional. I used to draw maps by hand, even when I tried my time at creating a campaign for a Dungeons and Dragons game). To be able to contribute to something akin to the media I've been consuming forever (have you ever just opened Google Maps to view islands out in the middle of the ocean, or just observe the streets of places afar?) would be a great pleasure.
   
   Down to the meat of determining the viability of this - the website product is written mostly in Ruby, which is a no go for me due to unfamiliarity. However, their iD editor is written in Javascript. Its well documented (code of conduct, contributing, etc) and I'd be thrilled to contribute to something of this nature.
   
3. *Godot Engine*
  I've heard about Godot Engine a long time ago, so to hear it mentioned again is a good sign that the project is still progressing. The fact that they code in C++ is a plus (no pun or half pun intended). Based on the evaluation done by my classmates, code documentation is sparse but the community is strong and the instructions are clear; additionally the code is easily understandable. Minus the lack of comments, I couldn't exactly ask for anything more. 
