# Week Eight: Current Events

>Continue to chronicle your activities related to the project on which you are now working, in detail. Treat the blog as its name's derivation implies.
>This week has been eventful, and it has greatly impacted everyone's lives. For you as students it has a different impact than it does for others, and it has an impact on our plans for this course. Write about how it has changed things for you, and as an interesting exercise, write how you think the situation will be in four weeks and in eight weeks.

## 2. Recent Changes to Society
I'd like to start with this prompt rather than the first as I have far more to say on the matter. 

To start, I've always been more or less of a shut in. I'm in my last semester with hardly any event experience. Only a few weekends ago I participated in HackNYU and it was exhilerating to say the least. In late December I had my first legit interview, which was fun, comfortable, and exciting (didn't go anywhere but I am grateful for the opportunity to interface with professionals). To summarize, I've just become coming out of my shell and have been hungry for more interviews and hackathons where I can further push myself out of my comfort zone. Unfortunately, the pandemic has canceled about every upcoming event I had registered for, for the foreseeable future.

Another tense component of this (personally) is that I need to find a job and get health insurance before I graduate as I turn 26 in July, and have been living with Type 1 Diabetes for about two decades. To combine these two premises (my network being weak, my resume dry of internship experience, with this deadline), things are looking (or feeling) fairly grim. A year prior I was overly anxious regarding this possible scenario, and maybe within the past seven months things appeared to take an upturn. Now I feel like I'm back where I started, momentum-wise, drawing evercloser to my relative worst case scenario.

Regarding the move to virtual learning, I'm still on the fence in my opinion, leaning toward the metaphorical yard full of people who are at best skeptical and at worst panicked. School is my structure, waking up at 7 on Mondays and Thursdays, being out of home, away from distractions. On Fridays I have my Cuny Tech Prep lecture, where I am able to learn and socialize with students from other CUNY schools. All of this has effectively been erased. I, like many others, can't trust myself to hold myself accountable entirely from the confines of my home. Especially with my parents working remotely at home. My father is video conferencing with clients at the dinner table. My mother is coordinating residents and students, and the like, from the couch. My home is not a large one, and my room is a den of distraction. Right now I'm typing this out from the back porch on a plastic fold out table. For the longest the backyard has been my office, when the weather is suitable. Its... questionable, or has been for the past week. If this whole pandemic situation were not in effect, I would find myself at Dunkin Donuts, or the local library. However, the library is closed and my local Dunkin has taken on the appearance of a recently vacated studio apartment, acoustics and all. 

Now, I've heard that Hunter, like many CUNY schools, still has its library open. As that may be, I am an immunocompromsied individual, my parents are nearing 60, and my girlfriend has a respitory condition. Even if I didn't care about my own health, I couldn't risk being infected and bringing the virus to them. As far as I know I've been lucky so far with work, at a chain pharmacy whose dimensions are so small that the 6 foot recommendation is highly unrealistic. I'm highly opposed to creating another avenue for which I could contract this condition.


### Four Weeks from Now: A Projection
I urge whatever higher being is out there to reconsider the course of our current reality. As it stands, my attempts at networking are on hold for the future, at least in the traditional sense. I'm afraid that regarding our nation as a whole, things will get worse before they get better. Our healthcare system has for a long time been standing on its last legs, and many contributing factors with respect to ongoing events could topple it. For example, young spring breakers are still flocking to the beaches of Florida and the state government isn't doing a thing about it. These folks could bring home the infection to their loved ones, and apparently they could care less. Same goes for those opting to take discounted flights (which I can't say is not extremely enticing, current events aside). 

Passover dinner is cancelled, and most likely so is Easter dinner. For the better, I think. Even with this moment of clarity from my grandparents, I can't trust them not to leave their house. They are active and bullheaded. That last part goes for many of their age bracket and as such I'm scared we may ultimately see the decimation of their generation as this illness hits them the hardest. 

I've recently heard that despite this pandemic, some Democratic primaries were allowed to continue. This caused all sorts of issues, like defunct or closed polling stations, and a surprising absence of the youth bloc. Friends have called this voter suppresion, especially with the DNC chair urging primaries to continue on schedule (as if to wrap this thing up). I was already overly pessimistic with how the DNC as a whole was handling the primaries and their pandemic response is just another drop in the bucket. 

Right now we are getting a glimpse of every possible future. The pseudo-UBI being planned by the administration, American democracy staggering, a myriad of concessions being made for the average worker/common citizen, even prisoners, in response to the pandemic. It's almost dreamlike, and going forward will probably be increasingly surreal. 

Oh, and Pennsylvania requiring a host of common crimes to require warrants is interesting and troubling. We are getting closer to law being suspended, hopefully temporarily. 

> Since initially writing this section, my boss had texted me to inform me that a member of the pharmacy staff 
> at my store had tested positive for Covid-19. My store is small, and both departments share breakrooms and bathrooms. 
> I've elected to call out of my shift today, but its worth mentioning how close to home all of this is, metaphorically
> speaking.

### Eight Weeks from Now: Conjecture
#### Positive Scenario
Hopefully, as we recover we retain all the good changes that have occurred, are occuring, or will occur going forward. 

#### Negative Scenario
Alot of people die, the global economy is sunk, we truly enter another recession. 
## Current Project Updates
