# Week 11
## Vicky Brasseur's Visit
I am ashamed to say I had missed both prior visits to our class by esteemed speakers, and I am even more bothered that I had in the face of witnessing Vicky Brasseur's presentation. The topic she covered seemed, in essence, something that is endemic in much of the online coding community, not just open source. However I can understand how such behavior, alongside with some reputations based on historic precedent, could damage the optics of the open source movement in a way that hinders its goals. I won't say that I've experienced the brunt of this in open source, however I've been a member of many less than polite communities, and witnessed all kinds of acts of elitism, neglect, and aggression in what are public learning resources and discussion forums. 

Vicky's presentation was focused on the social angle of the open source community (if my memory serves me correctly), which may not seem as important at first glance but is deeply woven into its very being (despite it very clearly being a community, they are communities pursuing goals and projects so the social aspect may fall by the wayside as they work towards said goals). I've historically been a pessimist regarding stuff like this, bringing or "returning" some sense of civility and respect to online discussion. My examples are mediums unlike the one Vicky discusses: text or voice chat in video games, social media posts and groups, online forums. While she did mention moderators not doing their jobs on some IRC(?) servers and other mediums for open source communities, I feel like due to the nature of the movement a lot of the pressure to do better lies on the individual as opposed to these other mediums I've mentioned.

Vicky mentioned it's far from perfect, whether in forums, IRC channels, or Slack channels (very surprised to hear open source projects use slack, not sure why). She even discussed the differences between IRC and Slack, and why Slack isn't that great of a utility for something of this nature.

I'm surprised about the topics that Vicky touched upon, not that I should be, but that there was such a level of introspection regarding the general behavior of the community and how it could be improved to better interface with non-involved individuals. She mentioned how one of the motives was for greater adoption of open source technology by the world, which would be hindered by the unwelcoming behavior and programmer centric design of most open source software. And it's great that someone is thinking about something like that, as it wouldn't be the first thing to come to mind if someone mentioned the word 'open source' to me.

## 2019 Novel Coronavirus COVID-19 (2019-nCoV) Data Repository by Johns Hopkins CSSE
We were asked to review an open data project, by the name in the heading, and if we would and could contribute. I'll begin by making the (obvious) observation that it is a large data repository, not a code repository. Given that their information is extracted from official sources, I'm not sure how I'd be able to add anything to the project. 

Out of their 419 pull requests (243 open, 176 closed), only 12 have been merged. I find that highly unusual but then again its a project in a form I am ufamiliar with. Even more strange, the titles and content of pull requests are all over the place (it is likely in part to the lack of a pull request template guide). Even further in the direction of oddity is the content of any given pull request in the closed section. Many are closed without dialogue of any kind, by the requester, with no comment. Some react unusually when there is feedback. Take [PR #2272](https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19/pull/2272 "Weird") for example, a pull request simply fixing a spelling error. The first comment, by a user named atz, asks the author if they can rebase their pull request, which followed with the author closing their PR. Maybe they have some way of handling pull requests that I am not aware of (more to the fact that they have no CONTRIBUTING guide), merging the PR in some repo between worlds. 

Many of the issues regard errors in the data and formatting, which is unsurprising given the nature of the project, let alone the nature of data itself. There are over 1200 open issues and a bit over 700 closed ones. The closed ones have discussion in nearly every single one, but the open ones are lacking.

But I digress. To return to the initial question, I'm not sure I have the proper skills to contribute to something of this nature (as mystical and cryptic as it is), and if I did have time to work on it I'd probably spend the vast majority of it figuring out how to get involved.

## Government Involvement in Open Source (code.gov and the Open Source Pilot Program)
We were also asked to look into [Code.gov](code.gov), the site that can be described as the entry point to an initiative by the Federal Government to leverage the resource that is Open Source software and development.

### I. Issues of Interest (from the [Open Tasks](https://code.gov/open-tasks) Page)
| Repo | Issue # | Title | Comment |
|---|:---|:---|:---|
|[GSA/code-gov-api](https://github.com/GSA/code-gov-api)|[#209](https://github.com/GSA/code-gov-api/issues/209)|'API Agency Issues Report Accuracy?' | |
|[GSA/code-gov-api](https://github.com/GSA/code-gov-api)|[#269](https://github.com/GSA/code-gov-api/issues/269)|'Sort /agencies endpoint' | |
|[GSA/code-gov-front-end](https://github.com/GSA/code-gov-front-end)|[#128](https://github.com/GSA/code-gov-front-end/issues/128)|'Add Warning for Unsupported Browsers' | |
|[GSA/code-gov-front-end](https://github.com/GSA/code-gov-front-end)|[#187](https://github.com/GSA/code-gov-front-end/issues/187)|'Reduce Image Sizes' | |

### II. Government Repos and How One Can Contribute
#### GSA/code-gov-api - The API Backend of code.gov
Ways to Contribute:
* Report bugs & feature requests
* Join the mailing list (unsure how that counts)
* Share ideas or improvements
* Create a pull request with new functionality or bug fixes
* Improve or make documentation
* Improve unit and integration testing
* "Triage tickets and review patches triaging-tickets made by other users"

#### GSA/code-gov-front-end - The Front End of code.gov
Ways to Contribute:
 * Practically a cut and paste of whats above.
 
#### GSA/usagov_lambda - "Lambda functions used by usa.gov"
 * The README is empty
 * No contributing docs
 * Recently active
 
#### Other Observations
 * There are ALOT of repos under the GSA organization on Github, many with cryptic names and little explanation otherwise.
 * Those first two repos seem like real contenders for things I'd want to contribute to, especially due to how much javascript comprises both repos.
 
### My Feelings about the Government's Initiative
It appears that the federal government is trying to better utilize the (abstract) resource that is open source software. Paraphrasing from the site's about page:

* "The Open Source Pilot Program mandates that federal angencies release at least twenty percent of *new custom-developed Federal source code* to the public." 
 * "By making source code available for sharing and re-use across federal agencies, we can *avoid duplicative custom software purchases* and promote innovation and collaboration across federal agencies."
 * "By opening more of our code to minds inside and outside of the government, we can enable them to work together to ensure that the code is reliable and effective in furthering our national objectives."
 
 So at face value it seems like the government is trying to save some money and leverage the perks of open source development (citing that one rule about many eyes and shallow bugs, among other things). This is cool, if not a tad nervewracking. Not that I expect bad stuff to be done with my code, or that some alterior motive is present (its the federal government, but this seems benign),  but navigating the repos under the GSA organization was kind of mysterious and creepy. Alot of the repos had cryptic names, no descriptions, empty READMEs and a complete lack of documentation files. I felt as if I was exploring some decades abandoned military installation. However, these repos are active, some recieving more attention than others. Another way to describe my feelings during exploration is like looking at a business with the shutter mostly down, no awning or signage, yet from under the gate, you can see lights and all kinds of activity. 
 
So yeah, its neat the government wants to use the power of open source. Given the government's track record with the quality of technological assets (like the COBOL based systems not being able to scale to the glut of the recent surge in unemployement applications), its great that they're finding ways to ensure at least some of there code is as secure, reliable, and up to date as it could possibly be.

