---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


# Ways I'd Like to Contribute to Open Source
I would like to contribute in a handful of ways. My biggest desire is to conribute code or a feature to an open source project, which at the moment feels like the most challenging aspect. The other way, which I find easier, is by contributing to information sites like Wikipedia and OpenStreetMap. I've had experience editing pages on the wikia pages of some games, mainly updating the pages to reflect current and helpful information (it's crazy how one could start a page and essentially leave it blank). 

# Skill and Career Benefits
The benefits making contributions would bing to myself are mainly training in working on a pre-existing project with others, specifically experience reading pre-existing code and working around/with pre-defined conventions. This kind of experience would develop my communication skills among a team as well as with users (addressing bugs, suggestions, generally having discussions with users about a given project). The ability to work around an open-source project's conventions is transferable to, say, working in a professional coding environment (specifically getting a job that involves contributing to some company's code). Additionally, it is an opportunity to practice skills and concepts that I have learned in class but haven't had much opportunities to use in a practical situation.

# Personal Network Benefits
A (personally advantageous) aspect of contributing on an open-source project would be the change to expand one's network. It can pay off as far as job opportunities, or even creating long-term friendships. I am still friends with people I worked with during my time in level development some 13 years ago (I was young but the Source Engine's Hammer editor was fairly intuitive). Back to the professional benefits, it helps to have a few people who can vouch for one's own competence.

# Benefits from Preparation
As mentioned before, working on projects can keep one's skills and brain sharp. I frankly have issue coming up with ideas on my own. However, if you narrow the scope or even give me some (partially) developed project that has some issues that need solving, I'll willingly throw myself and my resources (mental and physical) to help as much as I can. Additionally, keeping oneself sharp is certainly useful for technical interviews.
