#Week 10

Unforunately I wasn't able to attend the session where Gil Yehuda visited, but I do have some great news. After some digging, research, and guidance, I was able to have one of my pull requests merged into the Godot project! I was having trouble getting started (really getting acclimated) to the way one would interact with a huge open-source codebase like Godot's, so I instead spent some time looking for issues in their documentation branch in order to find something to do while honing my skills and understanding. 

The issue in question was [godot-docs issue #3314](https://github.com/godotengine/godot-docs/issues/3314). The user was making it known that the documentation for the Color class failed to make mention of a similar function, Color8, which accepted values in the 0-255 range instead of the 0-1 range. Odd that this was the case despite the documentation making mention of a similar alternative. 

I did some digging in the documentation codebase and found the class's documentation file, which warned me not to edit this particular file, and instead edit a file in the main repository since the documentation is generated from the main repository code. I had accidentally glossed over a part in the readme/contribution guide that made mention of this situation, so I was lost for a little bit (hopelessly digging around in the documentation files for the paths mentioned in the class doc file).

Once I made my edit to the main repo, I submitted my pull request([godot pr #37589](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/37589)). Apparently I made a typo (which I could have sworn I had fixed as I had noticed it prior), due to my 'p' key showing its age (its not as responsive as it used to be). I was told to squash the commits by a contributor after I had fixed the typo, who kindly supplied their guide for doing so (which had me confused, using interactive rebasing; alot of trial and error, and even a force-pushed commit to my repo because apparently my remote was ahead of my local - unsurprising, but had no idea how to resolve it otherwise). It took a few days for them to accept the pull request, and I was even thanked. Very exciting to have my first open-source pull request merged, I've been waiting for this moment for probably years. Quite grateful for the class requiring me to do so, otherwise I'd remain a chicken in this regard. Great progress.
